Jog Falls-  Jog Falls is created by the Sharavathi River dropping 253 m (830 ft), making it the second-highest plunge waterfall in India after the Nohkalikai Falls with a drop of 335 m (1100 ft) in Meghalaya. Sharavathi, a river which rises at Ambutirtha, next to Nonabur, in the Thirthahalli taluk and takes the northwesterly course by Fatte petta, receives the Haridravati on the right below Pattaguppe and the Yenne Hole on the left above Barangi. On arriving at the frontier it bends to the west, precipitates itself down the Falls of Gersoppa, and passes that village (properly Geru-Sappe), which is some 29 kilometres (18 mi) distant, discharging into the sea at Honnavar in Uttara Kannada.

Jogi Gundi Falls- Jogi Gundi waterfalls; a beautiful and mesmerizing falls is situated in Agumbe village, in the Shimoga district of Karnataka State, India. An ideal picnic spot, Jogi Gundi waterfalls is also from where the River Malapahaari; a tributary of River Tunga originates. 

Kunchikal Falls- Kunchikal Falls is located Nidagodu village near Masthikatte in Shimoga district of state Karnataka. Kunchikal falls cascades down rocky boulders and total height of fall is 455 meters (1,493 feet) making it the highest waterfall in India. Kunchikal falls is formed by Varahi river. After construction of Mani Dam near Masthikatte and underground power generation station near Hulikal, Shimoga district, the water flow to this falls is greatly reduced and visible only during rainy season (July-Sept). As the falls is within restricted area, Gate pass is required to visit and the pass is being issued at Hosangadi village (about 15 km away). The nearest Airport is at Mangalore, situated 138 km (86 mi) from Kunchikal Falls.

Hidulmane Falls- The beautiful waterfall is situated under the Shimoga district of Karnataka and is located within the Mookambika reserve forest at the base of the Kodachadri hills of the Western Ghats. The milky white water rushing down against a background of rocks and greenery is a sight to behold. The one at the topmost level drops down to a natural pool below. The water in this pool is not very deep and visitors can enjoy a bath in the cool water of the falls at any time of the year except the monsoon season. The best time to visit the waterfall is during the post monsoon season i.e., September to January. During these months the waterfall flows down with increased velocity due to the increased volume of water and offers a refreshing sight to the visitors.

Barkana falls- Barkana Falls is one of the ten highest waterfalls in India. The waterfall is located in Balehalli forest area, at a distance of about 7 km from the Agumbe village in Shimoga district of Karnataka. The waterfall has a height of about 850 ft. It is located at a height of about 259 metres above sea level. It originates from the Seeta River that flows through this region. Barkana Falls is one of the prime sources of hydroelectricity in Karnataka as the water is used to power a hydroelectric system.

Dabbe Falls- Karnataka is a land blessed with a number of waterfalls. Among them the Dabbe Falls of Shimoga is known for its beauty and serenity. The waterfall is situated near Hosagadde village under Sagar taluk in the Shimoga district of Karnataka. Dabbe falls are naturally cascading falls that offer an enchanting view to visitors. Being a part of the Sharavati Valley of the lush green Western Ghats the waterfall is surrounded by a landscape of pristine beauty. The sound of the water as it gushes down the rocks in a steep descent and the resplendent atmosphere are hard to forget for anyone who visits the Dabbe Falls.






